BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION: ONLINE VIDEO LECTURING IN UNIVERSITIES

Nowadays, closing down of educational institutions due to coronavirus pandemic has necessitated the need for teachers to shift their lectures to the web.

What are Video Lectures?
A video lesson or lecture is in form of video which represents knowledgeable and educational material of a particular topic which is to be learned. Video Lectures may vary in formats.  It can be a video of a teacher speaking to the camera and presenting to each and every individuals , or it can be a photograph or a text about the topic or some mixture of these.
Nowadays there are so many tutorials which we can see on you tube or on other various platforms like Coursera, NPTEL, Udemy, Edx etc. I myself went to lots of video lectures from Udemy, coursera, NPTEL, Byjus etc and it really benefitted me and its a time saving technique also.
When should you use video?

It is important to always have a clear instructional purpose behind watching your online video-:
o	It can reduce the reading load for students.
o	It demonstrates  how-to do  a specific task or how to use a product use.
o	It emphasizes an important concept or point.
o	When you need more emotional appeal than photos and text, video can help.


Advantages of video lectures-:
1.	Easy to access anytime-:

With video lectures, students can learn anywhere from their mobile,  laptops, tablets etc. you Just have to  make sure the format of your lecture is supported on all devices. An unsupported file format can become a nasty surprise when it comes to playing your lecture on an iPad or other popular device so we have to keep in concern that our format runs on all type of devices.
2. Learn whenever you want-:
Nowadays people face problems on the time assigned by the lecturer so with video lecturing people enjoy the process of learning whenever they want. So you can just upload your video lectures online and send your students a link.
3. Learning at an individual pace-:
Every teacher knows that each individual has his own pace of learning. With the help of video lectures, all students can learn at their own individual pace and doesn’t face any of the problem, through which results of e-Learning get maximised.
4. Many ways to use-:
We recognize video lectures  as a type of distance learning. However, these can also be used in your in-class teaching. It is such an innovative approach to teaching and it will engage your student and encourage your colleagues.
5. Easy to deliver-:
You can provide students with unlimited access to all your learning materials by uploading video lectures to the Web or LMS so that peoples can easily understand the topics. Alternatively, you can create a CDor DVD  or send your lecture by email as it is widely used.
6. More effective learning-:
If a student is not able to attend some lecture due to any of the reason, you can send him the link to the lecture video (or simply make regular posts on your website for all students to access at their convenience). This allows all your students to proceed with the same speed as of the curriculum.
7. Opportunity for self-study-:
In your interactive video lecture, you can refer to more useful materials for self-study. You can also  record an additional lecture for the students that complements in-class activities.
8. Economical-: 
In the case of online training, students' aim is to learn so companies do not incur any expenses in miscellaneous offline activities and money is spent only on developing the content for the student thereby lowering the cost of training.
Moreover, the time you might have spent commuting can now be saved.
Disadvantages of video lectures-:
•	More expensive:- The Cost of making and delivering video lectures is high.
•	Time-consuming to script, record, and edit :- When a video lecture comes to end user it is in a refined way and for refining that process it requires some time.
•	Low quality video :- Sometimes videos may are of poor quality for like low picture quality, no clear words etc.
•	Uses more bandwidth and takes longer to load:- Video lectures take much time to load.
•	It also includes cost in logistics of scheduling the recording, editing, and the resources.
•	Video storage – To download a particular video it requires space or storage in your device.

following are the pro's of classroom teaching that online education will find hard to replace:
1. Promotes cooperative learning-:
Basically, classroom environment is essential to promote  cooperative learning. Cooperative learning increases a student's self-confidence  about how other students are learning which also enables them to learn more easily and effectively, transforming them into keen learners inside and beyond classroom.
2. Enhances censorious thinking skills-:
It enhances students' censorious(critical)  thinking skills. When you are teaching in a classroom  students pay attention to the live sessions so to engage themselves in  live discussions in which they are forced to use their critical thinking skills to formulate opinions or arguments.
3. Improves communicability-:
Inside a classroom, students experience social interactions among themselves and establish rapport with teachers. Helping children develop there communication skills  is an important aspect within the realm of their academic education.
4. Builds Decision making  skills-:
Classroom teaching teaches students how to develop their decision making  skills, beginning with the basics, such as arriving to school on time. In a classroom, students are prepared to do school work, which includes having done their homework the night before, being ready for pop quizzes, turning in assignments by their due date and being prepared for in-class discussions. In effect, students gets to learn how to organize their time, prioritize their assignments and get their homework done and develop multitasking skills.

5. Keeps students activated-:
The physical presence of a teacher keeps students activated through the interactive and interesting activities. This enables students to retain more knowledge from what they have learned during a session.
6. Teaching style can be modified-:
In thistTeachers can easily modify their teaching style based on types of learners in their classroom i.e  interactions can help auditory learners, etc. Teachers can get a clear idea whether students are getting the sessions  or they require further explanation. At the same time, students can ask their doubts and get clarified immediately before moving ahead in a topic.    


How Video lectures led to business transformation?
1.	People are running their institute with video lectures.
2.	Its requires Admission fee in most of the cases to learn online with the help of videos.
3.	People are enjoying digital way of learning so they pay also.
4.	Mostly universities are following this approach of new way of learning as they can reduce the cost of maintaining premises also they can reduce the cost of paying professors.
5.	Easy Accessibility of videos are making it more comfortable for people to opt for video lectures then live classes.
6.	People get motivated and try new things and also leads to run success businesses all over the world with the help of these lectures.

Why videos lectures are important in education?
The influence of digital videos on our everyday culture is indisputable.  Online video sharing sites such as YouTube, Coursera and Udemy boast monthly audience numbers in the millions. With the help of  digital videos we are  continuing to gain popularity, it seems only natural that this type of platform is familiar and widespread platform extends into the education setting.
Students today are utilizing educational videos as a tool for learning everything from changing a operating system to the learning of any languages like machine learning. Remarkably, we see that millennial make up 92% of the digital video viewing audience. Some of the abstract topics that once seemed very difficult to teach and understand by everyone are now more accessible and understandable. Thanks to the availability of educational videos.
Recently the research or the studies have shown that the use of short video clipsof any topic allows for more efficient processing and memory recall. The visual and auditory nature of videos appeals to a wide audience and allows each user to process information in a way that’s natural to them.


Conclusion
The benefits of using these videos in an educational setting are numerous and very helpful. Their convenience and versatility make them an asset to students as better understanding capability, teachers as they don’t have to go to each and every class and teach and still get paid and educational institutions . Videos create a more engaging sensory experience than using print materials on the book.
