Role of IT in Transportation Industry
Information technology
Firstly, we should start with IT. IT stands for information technology which is basically used for performing many types of operations that is to store data, to retrieve data, to manipulate data and to transfer the data from one place to another and a lot more innovations can be added but major were these. In this we design a special type of technology with the help of software, hardware and some other equipments for performing all the operations. In this we have to develop the technologies which are required for the business or a organization.
Advantages of information technology are -:
1.	Time effective technologies.
2.	It also increases a production of the company.
3.	It increases relationship between the companies.
Disadvantages of information technology are -:
1.	High cost is required to implement the technology. 
2.	Security is also required .
3.	Eliminations of unskilled workers.
What is transportation industry?
Basically the word transportation industry is divided into two parts : transportation and industry. Transportation means to move one product , thing , goods from one place to another place and industry means a particular organization for some précised product or goods. So if we combine both it becomes moving of a product from one organization to other.  	
Advantages of transportation industry are –:
1.	They are much used ideal for long distances.
2.	Fast delivery can be done.
3.	They are cost effective than another source ..
4.	They are very useful for transporting heavy loads.
Disadvantages of transportation industry are -:
1.	Chances for accidents.
2.	There can be parking problems.
3.	There is high amount of pollution caused by transportation.
4.	Traffic jams.

INTRODUCTION 
Now comes the role of IT in transportation industry . As we all know for the generation of city growth there is a tremendous traffic is experiencing due to increase in amount of movement of vehicles from one  city to another for the transportation of goods. This is causing mobility problems complex day by day.
We all know that IT plays an important role in transportation industry as it helps us in decreasing the amount of pollution in environment while increasing the amount of productivity. So that we do not face any further challenges by which our nature gets depleted. In terms of competition, companies are not able to perform there work efficiently due to heavy traffic on roads by which companies are requiring with high amount of costs for all there expenses. The problem of increased transport is not only exploiting our nature  but also it is affecting the health , environment and economic of our society due to increase in amount of smoke generated from the vehicles. The environmental impact is axiomatic, because the vehicles have to wait for the longer period of time in the traffic and due to traffic the vehicles will not be able to move with high speed and as they are moving with the slow speed  they will be consuming higher amount of fuel, which produces large amount of toxic gases. Due to high traffic jams companies and industry  are not able to perform the logistics operations efficiently which are resulting in higher costs and lower production level of goods. However, this need to be controlled to protect our nature and to ensure quality and the customer services. That is why we introduce the concept of information technology through which we can reduce these losses.

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVICES
These technologies are the combination of all the information which are aimed to capture, communicate, compute and decision  making which allow the proper flow of the transport systems in terms of speed, traffic and fuel consumption. Due to overcome with all these losses faced by the environment, human health and economic conditions  we introduce the concept of information technology  in which we develop the technology through which we can reduced losses faced by our generation. With the use of these technologies we are performing better in terms of speed and  time consumption. For all this proper transportation system, we require many types of technologies such as Internet, wireless communication, electronic data exchange , computer programming, technologies designed to analyze the required information. These devices are coming in the boost amount, so most of the readers want to explore these type of technologies so that they try to overcome many problems which are faced by us . 
Let us take a example an understand it. Suppose as we all know about the GPS (Global Positioning System) systems in the cars, truck etc. what does they do they are just used for the tracking of the road  the shortest path through which we can reach our destination as soon as possible or we can see the traffic on all the roads so that we do not face the large traffic. These are the space based satellite navigation system which is used for providing the information about the weather and locations anywhere on the earth. These are the networks which work 24*7 for us so that we should aware of all the weather conditions an about all the locations.
This is all developed by the concept of information technology so that we can make our transportation easy  and vulnerable. IT engineers works a lot on these programs so that all the conditions are satisfied by the technology and we can make our nation as a digital nation and do not face any problem for the upcoming generations by the help of all these gadgets. 
You can take more examples like-:
1.	Voice recognition system.
2.	Mobile communication systems.
3.	Online delivery app.
4.	Online funds transfer. 
5.	GIS( geographic information system) etc
 CONCLUSION
The word transportation has played its special role in our life without transportation we will be not be able to do any thing. But to overcome we all need the to know the importance of the Information Technology devices in our life. These devices have improved our safety, productivity and made our environment clean and healthy to some extent. The applications like speed detectors and global positioning system(GPS) has made transportation management to be achieved. So the role of IT is most important in transportation industry.  
